README.md, before:

# ng-tourcms

AngularJS service for accessing the [TourCMS](http://www.tourcms.com) [API](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/).

## Status

Fairly early code. Not all API methods implemented.

TODO:

* ~~General / Housekeeping APIs~~
  * ~~API Rate Limit Status~~
* ~~Channel (Operator) APIs~~
  * ~~List Channels~~
  * ~~Show Channel~~
  * ~~Channel Performance~~
* Tour (Product) APIs
  * ~~Search Tours~~
  * ~~List Tours~~
  * ~~Show Tour~~
  * ~~Show Tour Dates and Deals~~
  * ~~Check Tour Availability~~
  * Search Hotels by Specific Availability
  * Update Tour
  * Bulk exporting
    * Show Tour Departures
    * List Tour Locations
    * List Tour Images
  * Managing dates and prices externally
    * Search raw departures
    * Create new departure
    * Update departure
    * Delete departure
* Bookings & Payments
  * ~~Show Promo Code~~
  * ~~Search Bookings~~
  * ~~Show Booking~~
  * ~~Search Vouchers~~
  * ~~Redeem Voucher~~
  * Start New Booking
  * Delete Booking
  * Commit Booking
  * Update Booking
  * Cancel Booking
  * Store Payment
  * Record Failed Payment
  * Spreedly Payment
* Internal Supplier APIs
  * ~~Show Supplier~~


## Dependencies / Requirements

1. Requires [SHA256.js](http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/sha256.html)

2. Optionally, add [X2JS](http://code.google.com/p/x2js/) to receive JSON back rather than the default XML

3. At the time of writing TourCMS API does not support [CORS](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/), thus this library is largely
intended for use developing with AngularJS in native wrapper environments such as Cordova (Phonegap).

  If using Cordova (Phonegap) you may need to whitelist network access to the TourCMS API on`https://api.tourcms.com` and - if you are linking to TourCMS hosted images - our media CDN on `http://media.tourcms.com` and `http://*.rackcdn.com`.

## Installation / Configuration

Ensure `ng-tours.js` is included in your project.

Call the `configure` method to set your API parameters, `channelID` can alternatively be passed when
making API calls, those accessing the API as an Agent, working with multiple Channels will likely work in that way,
rather than configuring here.

Typical Tour Operator configuration:

```js
tourcmsApiService.configure({
      apiKey: 'Your API Key',
      channelId: 'Your Channel ID'
    });
```

Typical Marketplace Agent configuration (working with multiple Channels):


```js
tourcmsApiService.configure({
      apiKey: 'Your API Key',
      marketplaceId: 'Your Marketplace ID'
    });
```


## API methods

### General/ Housekeeping APIs

#### [API Rate Limit Status](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/rate_limit_status.php)
Check the current API rate limit status.
```js
tourcmsApiService.apiRateLimitStatus({channelId: 3930})
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


### Channel (Operator / Supplier) APIs

#### [List Channels](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/channels_list.php)
List channels.
```js
tourcmsApiService.listChannels()
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Channel](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/channel_show.php)
Show details on a specific channel.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showChannel({channelId: 3930})
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Channel Performance](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/channels_performance.php)
List top 50 channels by number of unique visitor clicks (or check performance for a specific channel).

Supply a Channel ID to just return a specific Channel.

```js
tourcmsApiService.ChannelPerformance()
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


### Tour (Product) APIs

#### [Search Tours](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_search.php)
Search for tours.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.searchTours({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        k: 'rafting',
        order: 'price_down'
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [List Tours](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tours_list.php)
List tours.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.listTours({
      channelId: 3930
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
Also supports passing of the various query string parameters
```js
tourcmsApiService.listTours({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        booking_style: "booking",
        qc: 1
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Tour](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_show.php)
Show details of a specific tour tour.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTour({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
Also supports passing of the various query string parameters
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTour({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1,
      qs: {
        show_options: 1,
        show_offers: 1
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Tour Dates and Deals](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_datesdeals_show.php)
List the dates available for a specific tour.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTourDatesDeals({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
Also supports passing of the various query string parameters
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTourDatesDeals({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1,
      qs: {
        has_offer: 1,
        distinct_start_dates: 1
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Check Tour Availability](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_checkavail.php)
Check availability for a specific date and number of people on a specific tour.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

 The following example checks availability for 2 people
 on the first rate (e.g. usually "2 Adults") on the 30th Jan 2015 for Tour ID 1 on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.checkTourAvailability({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        id: 1,
        date: '2015-30-01',
        r1: 2
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Promo Code](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/promo_show.php)
Get details on a promotional code. Ueful for checking whether a promo code is valid
for a certain channel, and if so, whether a membership number or similar is required
to verify the promo.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

 The following example tries to show promo code 'TENPERCENT' on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.showPromo({
      channelId: 3930,
      promo: 'TENPERCENT'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

### Booking APIs

#### [Search Bookings](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/booking_search.php)
Search for bookings, view basic details about each.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

The following example searches for active bookings made in June 2014 on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.searchBookings({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        active: 1,
        made_date_start: '2014-06-01',
        made_date_end: '2014-06-30'
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
#### [Show Booking](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/booking_show.php)
Get details on a specific Booking.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

The following example tries to show Booking 3770 on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.showBooking({
      channelId: 3930,
      bookingId: 3770
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Search Vouchers](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/voucher_search.php)
Provide the barcode data from a TourCMS (or OTA) voucher and receive a list of matching components.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

 NB: At the time of writing the text displayed under the barcode on TourCMS vouchers is __not__
 the same as the text contained within the barcode. For testing purposes grab the _barcode_data_ from
 one of the Booking APIs or decode the QR code on a voucher.

```js
tourcmsApiService.searchVouchers({
      channelId: 3930,
      voucherString: 'TOURCMS|4069|4112'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

#### [Redeem Voucher](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/voucher_redeem.php)
Redeem (Check in) a particular component using a key obtained from "Search Vouchers".

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

```js
tourcmsApiService.redeemVoucher({
      channelId: 3930,
      key: 'Ax9SLSJFLSFJLS/oZu9NhurfJ8RMibtHmrL2kT6w=',
      note: 'Optionally add a note here'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

### Internal Supplier APIs
#### [Show Supplier](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/supplier_show.php)
Get details on a specific Supplier.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showBooking({
      channelId: 3930,
      supplierId: 1
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

Commit message:

Generic API wrapper, toDom helper

README.md, after:

# ng-tourcms

AngularJS service for accessing the [TourCMS](http://www.tourcms.com) [API](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/).

## Status

Fairly early code. Not all API methods implemented.

TODO:

* ~~General / Housekeeping APIs~~
  * ~~API Rate Limit Status~~
* ~~Channel (Operator) APIs~~
  * ~~List Channels~~
  * ~~Show Channel~~
  * ~~Channel Performance~~
* Tour (Product) APIs
  * ~~Search Tours~~
  * ~~List Tours~~
  * ~~Show Tour~~
  * ~~Show Tour Dates and Deals~~
  * ~~Check Tour Availability~~
  * Search Hotels by Specific Availability
  * Update Tour
  * Bulk exporting
    * Show Tour Departures
    * List Tour Locations
    * List Tour Images
  * Managing dates and prices externally
    * Search raw departures
    * Create new departure
    * Update departure
    * Delete departure
* Bookings & Payments
  * ~~Show Promo Code~~
  * ~~Search Bookings~~
  * ~~Show Booking~~
  * ~~Search Vouchers~~
  * ~~Redeem Voucher~~
  * Start New Booking
  * Delete Booking
  * Commit Booking
  * Update Booking
  * Cancel Booking
  * Store Payment
  * Record Failed Payment
  * Spreedly Payment
* Internal Supplier APIs
  * ~~Show Supplier~~


## Dependencies / Requirements

1. Requires [SHA256.js](http://pajhome.org.uk/crypt/md5/sha256.html)

2. Optionally, add [X2JS](http://code.google.com/p/x2js/) to receive JSON back rather than the default XML

3. At the time of writing TourCMS API does not support [CORS](http://www.w3.org/TR/cors/), thus this library is largely
intended for use developing with AngularJS in native wrapper environments such as Cordova (Phonegap).

  If using Cordova (Phonegap) you may need to whitelist network access to the TourCMS API on`https://api.tourcms.com` and - if you are linking to TourCMS hosted images - our media CDN on `http://media.tourcms.com` and `http://*.rackcdn.com`.

## Installation / Configuration

Ensure `ng-tours.js` is included in your project, `tourcms.ng-tourcms` is required by your module and `tourcmsApiService` is passed wherever it will be used.

Call the `configure` method on `tourcmsApiService` to set your API parameters, `channelID` can alternatively be passed when
making API calls, those accessing the API as an Agent, working with multiple Channels will likely work in that way,
rather than configuring here.

Typical Tour Operator configuration:

```js
tourcmsApiService.configure({
      apiKey: 'Your API Key',
      channelId: 'Your Channel ID'
    });
```

Typical Marketplace Agent configuration (working with multiple Channels):


```js
tourcmsApiService.configure({
      apiKey: 'Your API Key',
      marketplaceId: 'Your Marketplace ID'
    });
```


## API methods

### General/ Housekeeping APIs

#### [API Rate Limit Status](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/rate_limit_status.php)
Check the current API rate limit status.
```js
tourcmsApiService.apiRateLimitStatus({channelId: 3930})
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

#### Generic API request
Provides an interface for calling APIs with no specific wrapper function.

E.g. to simulate API Rate Limit Status (above):
```js
tourcmsApiService.genericRequest({
        channelId: 3930,
        verb: 'GET',
        postData: '',
        path: '/api/rate_limit_status.xml'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
The default `verb` is 'GET', `postData` should be DOM.

### Channel (Operator / Supplier) APIs

#### [List Channels](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/channels_list.php)
List channels.
```js
tourcmsApiService.listChannels()
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Channel](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/channel_show.php)
Show details on a specific channel.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showChannel({channelId: 3930})
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Channel Performance](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/channels_performance.php)
List top 50 Channels by number of unique visitor clicks (or check performance for a specific channel).

Optonally supply an object containing a `channelId` to just return a specific Channel.

```js
tourcmsApiService.ChannelPerformance()
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


### Tour (Product) APIs

#### [Search Tours](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_search.php)
Search Tours.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.searchTours({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        k: 'rafting',
        order: 'price_down'
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [List Tours](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tours_list.php)
List Tours.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.listTours({
      channelId: 3930
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
Also supports passing of the various query string parameters
```js
tourcmsApiService.listTours({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        booking_style: "booking",
        qc: 1
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Tour](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_show.php)
Show details of a specific Tour.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTour({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
Also supports passing of the various query string parameters
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTour({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1,
      qs: {
        show_options: 1,
        show_offers: 1
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Tour Dates and Deals](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_datesdeals_show.php)
List the dates available for a specific tour.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTourDatesDeals({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
Also supports passing of the various query string parameters
```js
tourcmsApiService.showTourDatesDeals({
      channelId: 3930,
      tourId: 1,
      qs: {
        has_offer: 1,
        distinct_start_dates: 1
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Check Tour Availability](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/tour_checkavail.php)
Check availability for a specific date and number of people on a specific tour.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

 The following example checks availability for 2 people
 on the first rate (e.g. usually "2 Adults") on the 30th Jan 2015 for Tour ID 1 on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.checkTourAvailability({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        id: 1,
        date: '2015-30-01',
        r1: 2
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Show Promo Code](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/promo_show.php)
Get details on a promotional code. Ueful for checking whether a promo code is valid
for a certain channel, and if so, whether a membership number or similar is required
to verify the promo.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

 The following example tries to show promo code 'TENPERCENT' on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.showPromo({
      channelId: 3930,
      promo: 'TENPERCENT'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

### Booking APIs

#### [Search Bookings](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/booking_search.php)
Search for bookings, view basic details about each.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

The following example searches for active bookings made in June 2014 on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.searchBookings({
      channelId: 3930,
      qs: {
        active: 1,
        made_date_start: '2014-06-01',
        made_date_end: '2014-06-30'
      }
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
#### [Show Booking](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/booking_show.php)
Get details on a specific Booking.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

The following example tries to show Booking 3770 on Channel 3930.
```js
tourcmsApiService.showBooking({
      channelId: 3930,
      bookingId: 3770
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```


#### [Search Vouchers](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/voucher_search.php)
Provide the barcode data from a TourCMS (or OTA) voucher and receive a list of matching components.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

 NB: At the time of writing the text displayed under the barcode on TourCMS vouchers is __not__
 the same as the text contained within the barcode. For testing purposes grab the _barcode_data_ from
 one of the Booking APIs or decode the QR code on a voucher.

```js
tourcmsApiService.searchVouchers({
      channelId: 3930,
      voucherString: 'TOURCMS|4069|4112'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

#### [Redeem Voucher](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/voucher_redeem.php)
Redeem (Check in) a particular component using a key obtained from "Search Vouchers".

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).

```js
tourcmsApiService.redeemVoucher({
      channelId: 3930,
      key: 'Ax9SLSJFLSFJLS/oZu9NhurfJ8RMibtHmrL2kT6w=',
      note: 'Optionally add a note here'
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```

### Internal Supplier APIs
#### [Show Supplier](http://www.tourcms.com/support/api/mp/supplier_show.php)
Get details on a specific Supplier.

If a Channel ID is not provided, the function will use the Channel ID
 configured on the service (see above).
```js
tourcmsApiService.showBooking({
      channelId: 3930,
      supplierId: 1
    })
    .success(function(data, status) {
      console.log('Success');
      console.log(data);
    })
    .error(function(data, status) {
      console.log(data || "Request failed");
      console.log(status);
    });
```
